in the star system of 55 cancri
there are five planets four of which are
gas giants similar to jupiter and saturn
but the fifth one or rather the first
because it's closest to the star
is different in a most horrible way 55
cancri
e is so close to its sun that half the
planet's surface is a literal ocean
of molten lava the other half is an
eternal darkness because it never sees
the sun
the planet is always turned to its star
on one side
and between the scorching and the dark
there's the twilight zone
a thin strip of gloomy nothingness
hd189377b
well i'm not going to say that again is
the only exoplanet in the orbit of its
star
and at first glance it looks quite
pretty blue and white swirls making up
wondrous patterns on the surface but
these pleasant colors
actually come from hard silicate
particles in the planet's atmosphere
which means it rains glass here but the
worst is that winds reach the speed of
5400 miles per hour or almost
mach 7. well for comparison
the fastest wind speed on earth was 254
miles per hour
over 20 times less thus the glass
falling from the sky
travels horizontally at hypersonic
speeds
shredding everything in its path here we
have a very long name for a very very
cold planet
although the host star is not too far
away it's a small and rather cool red
dwarf
whose light and heat barely even reach
the planet
the temperatures out there fall as low
as minus 370 degrees
which is only marginally warmer than
absolute zero
the exoplanet is thus dark gloomy and
covered in eternal ice that never thaws
still if it has a rocky core it might
generate some heat
so there's a chance that deep below the
frozen surface
some unknown alien things might lurk
dimidium located roughly 50 light years
away from our solar system
is a planet hostile to any living thing
on many accounts
it's tidally locked to its sun which
means one of its sides is always facing
the star
while the other is always turned away
the hot side is heated to over 1800
degrees
perpetually blown over with winds
reaching 600 miles per hour
despite dominium being a gas giant it
has a large amount of iron in it
which melts and evaporates in the
atmosphere creating clouds
and when those cool down they fall on
the surface in the infernal rain
of malt and iron oxygen is usually
viewed as an element that might bring
life to a planet
but this is definitely not the case for
osiris
scientists were shocked to find oxygen
on this planet
or rather around it because it's eight
times closer to its star than mercury is
to the sun
this extreme distance makes osiris a
living melting pot
where anything that could burn will it's
also responsible for a very short orbit
of the planet around the star
a year on osiris is just three and a
half days on earth
to boot the atmosphere of the planet is
constantly blown and melted away by the
heat from its sun
astronomers know for sure that the
universe is growing bigger
and the speed at which it's ballooning
is increasing all the time
but if the whole thing is swelling into
something bigger
then it must have some kind of an edge
right
it's unlikely that people will ever find
out but if so
then what would it be a ginormous brick
wall
and then nothing an abyss that leads to
nowhere
the most common theory is that the
universe is shaped in such a way
that it can't have an edge but it's not
the only idea
another theory is even more difficult to
comprehend
the universe is indeed infinite and our
part of it
isn't that unique it means that
somewhere out there
there's another u or rather other
you one of them is just a bit shorter
another wears their hair
in different ways and a third one is
identical to you in
all possible ways hey good looking
oh yeah there's also a theory about a
multi-universe
that consists of many smaller universes
and the universe we live in
is just a tiny bubble among other
similar bubbles
those scientists who support this idea
are also sure that
bubble universes can come into contact
with one another
then gravity starts to flow between them
and when two or three universes connect
a big bang occurs just like the one that
created our home universe
everything on earth and everything
people have managed to see in space with
the help of telescopes and other
instruments is
normal matter it's made up of atoms and
molecules
and adds up to less than five percent of
the universe
almost three quarters of the universe is
dark energy
astronomers wouldn't even know the thing
existed if several decades ago
they hadn't found out that the expansion
of the universe
wasn't slowing down quite the opposite
it was accelerating
it meant there had to be some enigmatic
force
that counteracted gravity it got dubbed
dark energy
some scientists believe that our planet
used to have an additional satellite
according to their research a smaller
celestial body
about 750 miles wide orbited the earth
just like a second moon
it most likely crashed into our main
satellite later on
such a collision could explain why the
two sides of the moon look so
different from each other one being
heavily cratered and rough
scientists also don't rule out the
probability that one day
earth will get another satellite even
today
there are tons of celestial bodies that
follow the planet
they're mostly temporary companions
though but scientists say that the
gravitational field of our planet
occasionally captures even quite big
asteroids
that spin around the earth for several
months or about three rotations
after that they move on in their journey
across the expanses of the cosmos
kind of like hitchhikers now earthquakes
or
rather moonquakes on the moon aren't
something from science fiction
they actually happen they don't occur as
often as those on earth
but they are much deeper and closer to
the center of our satellite
about halfway between the surface and
the core
scientists believe this phenomenon has
something to do with the gravitational
force
between the earth and the moon
so we can truthfully say to the moon hey
your quake is not
our fault get it fault alright let's
move on
about 20 million tons of gold can be
found inside our very own planet
and in the seas if all this precious
metal could be extracted
it would be enough to cover the entire
surface of the planet
in a two foot layer of gold
and if we gave everyone an equal piece
each one of earth's inhabitants
would get nine pounds of this treasure
but don't rush out to dig up your
backyard just yet
the metal is extremely diluted you can
only get a gram of gold for every 100
million tons of seawater
but can we at least try please
it takes the light from the sun just six
minutes to reach venus
this planet has the most circular orbit
of all the planets in the solar system
paradoxically one day on venus is longer
than one year
see for yourself it takes the planet 243
earth days
to make a full turn on its axis at the
same time
venus makes one revolution around the
sun in 224 earth days
venus has more volcanoes than any other
planet in the solar system
astronomers have already discovered up
to sixteen hundred on the surface
but there might be others too small for
people to see
most of these volcanoes aren't active
anymore but there are some that could
still be bubbling
the tallest mountain on venus is maxwell
montes
with a height of 29 000 feet it's almost
as tall as mount everest
winds on venus can reach incredible
speeds in the middle cloud layer of the
atmosphere
they can accelerate up to 450 miles per
hour
and that's faster than the swiftest
tornado on our planet
there are no seasons on venus and one of
the reasons is the tilt of its axis
which is less than 3 degrees for
comparison
earth's axial tilt is about 23 degrees
that's why the hemisphere that's pointed
toward the sun gets more energy than the
one that faces away
venus's slow rotation causes its
magnetic field to be way weaker than
that of earth
the hot planet rotates in the opposite
direction of the sun
and most other planets in the solar
system this phenomenon is known as
retrograde rotation
the most probable reason for it could be
a powerful collision with a huge space
body for example an asteroid
if you visited venus you probably
wouldn't be able to see the earth or the
sun
because of the super dense clouds that
always cover the sky of the planet
despite scorching temperatures and mega
dense atmosphere
venus is often called earth's twin
more like earth's evil twin you see both
planets are approximately the same size
what's more the composition of venus is
like that of our planet
and finally the orbit of our neighbor is
the closest to earth's
venus is one of the very few planets we
can see crossing in front of the sun
unfortunately it happens very rarely in
fact
since people invented the telescope
they've managed to see the transit of
venus
no more than seven or eight times
venus is the brightest planet in the sky
and is the second brightest celestial
object
after the moon we've reached our home
planet
the densest in the solar system at the
earth's center
there's a core that takes up 15 of the
planet's volume
it consists of two parts the outer and
the inner core
the inner core is a solid ball made of
iron and nickel
its radius is 760 miles give or take
which makes 20 percent of the entire
earth's radius
and 80 percent of the moon's radius the
1500 mile
thick outer core is liquid it also
consists of iron and nickel
but it's not under enough pressure to be
solid
the temperature at the boundary of our
planet's inner and outer core
is 10 800 degrees that's as hot as the
surface of the sun
and the pressure there is three and a
third million times
the atmospheric pressure at sea level
the mantle
surrounds the outer core this layer is
about eighteen hundred miles thick
and makes nearly eighty-four percent of
the entire earth's volume
it consists of silicate rocks rich in
iron and magnesium
the crust is a relatively thin layer
that takes up only one percent of the
earth's volume
hey i like thin crust along with the
upper part of the mantle
it's broken into tectonic plates they
move as fast as your fingernails grow
and let heat escape from the earth's
interior the crust
is mostly made up of oxygen silicon
aluminum
iron and other minerals but it's time we
leave our planet behind
and move to the red planet it's the last
of the inner planets
which are also called terrestrial since
they're made up of rock and minerals
mars has a core made mostly of iron
nickel and sulfur
it's between 900 and 1200 miles across
the core doesn't move that's why mars
lacks a planet-wide magnetic field
the weak magnetic field it has is just
0.01 percent of the earth's
the mantle surrounding the core is
composed of thick silicates
oxygen and some other minerals you can
probably compare it with soft
rocky toothpaste yeah brush your teeth
with that
the mars mantle is also much thinner
than the earth's
it's just 800 to 1100 miles thick
the planet's thin crust consists of
volcanic basalt rock
astronomers believe it isn't broken into
tectonic plates
and remains in one piece the crust is
covered with fine reddish dust
that looks like talcum powder i like my
crust covered with tomato sauce and
cheese
the next planet on our way is very
different from the ones we've already
visited
the largest planet in our solar system
jupiter
is a gas giant if the planet was 80
times as
massive as it is now it would have a
chance to turn
into a tiny red dwarf star anyway
if you decided to parachute into jupiter
you would never
land on a firm surface it's still
unclear whether the planet's core
is a molten ball of liquid or a solid
rock
14 to 18 times the mass of earth there's
even some
evidence the gas giant's core might be
melting right at this moment
whatever the truth is the temperatures
at the center of jupiter
reach 63 000 degrees give or take
around 90 percent of the planet's
atmosphere is hydrogen
the remaining 10 percent is made up of
helium with tiny traces of other gases
under immense atmospheric pressure
hydrogen and helium gases turn into a
dense fluid the deeper you go
closer to the core this liquid becomes
the mixture of metallic hydrogen and
helium
there's no solid ground on the planet
that's why astronomers define the
planet's surface
as the point where the atmospheric
pressure equals that on earth
you wouldn't be able to stand on that
surface though it's just
another layer of gases but the
gravitational pull there
is more than two and a half times more
powerful than that on our planet
a neutron star gets born after a
supernova collapses after birth
it rotates extremely fast about 60 times
per second
but this rate can sometimes grow up to
600 times per second
makes me dizzy space isn't supposed to
be black
there are stars everywhere shouldn't
they light everything up around
you don't see stars wherever you look
because some of them haven't existed
long enough for their light to reach
earth
another one of saturn's moons iapetus
has a unique
two-tone coloring the difference between
the satellite's two hemispheres is
impressive
one of them is light and the other is
eerily dark
scientists haven't figured out this
mystery yet
all of the planets of the solar system
would fit between
earth and the moon with some space left
yes there's lots of space in space
saturn isn't the only planet that has
rings gas giants
uranus neptune and jupiter have rings of
their own
but they are thin and almost impossible
to see
nasa can convert plasma waves radio
waves and
magnetic fields into audio tracks and
listen to what's happening in space
they record all kinds of intriguing
sounds from beeps
to ambulance like howls at the same time
space itself is an eerily silent place
there are some sound waves and
vibrations but people can't perceive
them
chariqlow is a tiny celestial body
orbiting the sun between saturn and
uranus
in the outer solar system just 157 miles
across
it's not a planet but it has two rings
of its own
and that's not one of them